In this lecture, you'll learn how to configure Passive Interfaces through a lab demo. And in our example
topology
here, we've got routers R1, R2, R3, R4, and R5, and they're all internal in our
organization. And we've got R6, which is a router which is at a partner.
So we want to have connectivity to that partner company, but we don't want to be sending them information
about our internal networking.
So we want to make sure that we don't start peering, forming an adjacency with R6, and sending them
that information.
We are also going to have a loopback interface on R1 and it's best practice to configure your
loopbacks as passive interfaces. You're never going to have another
router on the other side of that link. You can't have because it's not a physical link. So we'll configured
that as a passive interface as well.
I've already configured routing on all of my other routers internal in the company,
so R2, R3, R4, and R5.
I haven't configured anything on R1 yet.
So if I jump on R4, I should see all the internal routes but no route to get to the 10.0.1.0
network behind R1. So let's just verify that,
so I'm going to R4 and I'll do a
'show ip protocols', and I'm running RIP here for the lab demo and a 'show ip route' and I can see that I've
got RIP routes going everywhere, but I don't have a route to that network that was behind R1.
And the reason is if I go on R1 and do a 'show ip protocols' on here, I don't have any routing protocol
configured there yet.
Okay,
first thing, let's configure the loopback.
So, that was 192.168.1.1.
So if I do a 'show ip interface brief',
I can see the loopback isn't there yet.
So I go 'config t', and then ,interface loopback 0', 'ip address 192.168.1.1' and it's a loopback,
so I'll give it a /32, which is 255.255.255.255.
Next thing I want to do is I want this router to start sharing routes and learning routes from my other
internal routers.
So I will go to global config, and I'll say 'router rip'. I want this to be 'version 2' and 'no auto-summary'. We'll
cover the RIP configuration in a later section in more detail. And then, I want to say 'passive-interface loopback0',
and the other passive interface is going to be the interface facing the partner company.
Let's check which one that was, so fastEthernet2/0. I don't want to form an adjacency with
R6 and be giving them out routing information. So back onto the router, it was also 'passive-interface
fastEthernet2/0'. Now,
right now, I haven't put in my network statements, so I haven't enabled RIP on the interfaces yet. I've
enabled it globally but nothing's going to happen until I specify the interfaces that I want this to be
enabled on. So let's have a look at the network topology again, and all my internal interfaces are in
the 10.X.X.X networks, so I'll add that. I also need to add 192.168.1.1
for my loopback. So, let's do that. I'll say 'network 192.168.1.1', 1 at the end doesn't
really going to do anything. And also, 'network to 10.0.0.0', and that should be my configuration done
now.
So, I might just need to give RIP a second to do it's thing. While we're waiting for RIP to converge,
let's check what that subnet was again, so 10.0.1.0 is behind R1 and also 10.0.2.0.
So 10.0.1.0 and 10.0.2.0, let's see if R4 learned those networks. So I'll go onto
R4, and do a 'show ip route'
now.
And it was 10.0.1.0 and 10.0.2.0,
and there you go,
you can see that it has learned to those networks.
So, you can see why I had to make fastEthernet2/0 a passive interface.
I don't want to make it a normal interface. I don't want to send information to the partner company, but
if I just didn't include the interface in my configuration, then my internal routers wouldn't learn about
the route to get there.
So, that's why I created it as a passive interface.
I can also see I've got the route there to get to my loopback behind R1 as well. So, that's great.
All of my other internal routers are learning all of the routes everywhere including the loopback and
the passive interface. Let's have a look at the partner router which was R6.
So if I go on there, and you'll see that I've actually configure RIP on this router already and specified
'network 10.0.0.0'.
So, it's going to try to peer with R1. But
if I do a 'show ip route', you see that it hasn't learned any of the routes to the internal networks because
I set it as a passive interface on R1.
So, R1 is not sending it any information. Okay.
That was it.
That was our passive interfaces,
why we do it, and how to configure them.
See you in the next lecture.